So, let's just go over now a couple of
different ways we can tweak the UI for
shiny.
You already have kind of a default
theme with the side bar panel.
Let's go over one with the tab and
I think once you've gone through these two
versions, you'll kind of
notice the patterns and
you'll be able to tweak it with
a lot of different settings.
Also we'll talk a little bit at
the end about how you can actually do
Shiny with a custom HTML function.
Okay, so let’s just go through this
Advanced UI example and at the end,
we'll have some final discussion.
Okay, so I copied the code from
the R marked down document.
Hopefully the first couple of lines
are very familiar to you at this point.
We're still going to have a side bar
layout and you can do tabs within
a single panel,
just with no side bar, just the tabs.
You just need to change the layout.
So you can have a different layout with
tabs but we're going to have a side bar
layout where the side bar is
going to have the inputs and
then the main panel is going to have tabs.
But you can also just have one big panel,
not with a side bar, and
have it have tabs.
Or as we'll talk about later you can
tweak the UI infinitely with custom HTML.
Okay so our sidebar panel is just
going to have three text input boxes and
the labels for those inputs are going to
be box one, box two, box three.
The prompts to the user are going to be
enter tab one text, enter tab two text,
enter tab three text.
And then the starting value is
going to be Tab 1, Tab 2 and Tab 3.
Okay now in the main panel we are going
to have a subset of the main panel,
called a tabset panel.
And this is kind of this nested
user-interface-structured
that shiny allows with
it's with a syntax here.
So we have a mainPanel, and then we have
a tabsetPanel inside that function, okay?
And type = "tabs", and
then we have three tabPanels.
And these tabPanel statements
are working just like our mainPanel and
sidebarPanel functions.
They work in the same way.
We just have them strung out into one line
because they're very short in this case.
So our tabPanel is going to
have a label that says Tab 1.
It's going to have, basically,
a character term, to go down a line.
And then it's going to have textOutput,
out1.
So it's going to be looking for out1 from
the sever.R function, textOutput, out2.
Again, it's going to be looking for
something labeled output$out2 from
the server, Server.ourfile and so on.
Okay, so now let's look at our server.
Okay, it's going to be a very simple one,
shinyServer(function(input, output) so
this should all be very familiar.
Okay, and there's our output$out1 and
it's going to be renderText.
Okay, because remember what we want to do
in this piece when we go back to the UI we
want to display the text, and
we're just going to do nothing.
We' re just going to Spit back out
whatever the person entered in box1,
box2 and box3.
So let's go ahead and run that.
All right, so here's our three
text boxes for entering text.
And here's our three tabs.
So let's put it in tab two.
So if I just put it enter new text, okay,
and I go to Tab 2, it says enter new text.
Okay so that's just a nice
little tweak of the UI and
hopefully as you're doing it, you're
starting to get a sense of the syntax and
how it works a little bit better.
Make sure when you're doing all your UI
tweaks in everything that you don't have
any errors in the r code, or
studio will give you a little X's in
the code if you've forgotten to come or
something like that.
And I think that's probably the biggest
challenge with the UI programming, and
R is making sure you've closed
all your parenthesis and
added all the necessary commas and
that sort of thing.
And I think proper indentation and
doing your
coding in a nice environment like RStudio
will really help that tremendously.
Okay, so your homework now is to develop
a tabbed user interface for Shiny
and just next we're going to go through
just some of our final comments on Shiny.